UT PL 42 Math 1 Study Guide

Term

acre An acre is a land measurment with a total of 43,560 square feet; a unit of land area equal to 4,840 
square yards (0.405 hectare)

amortization Paying off an amount owed (i.e. a loan) over time. When purchasing a home, this is the process by 
which loan principal decreases over the life of a loan. Each mortgage payment includes some 
payment applied to the interest of the loan and some applied towards reducing the principal 
(amount that must be paid back).

Commission Split The structure in which a commission is split between the agent and the brokerage. If a selling 
agent is on a 70% split, the broker keeps 30% of the agent's commission from the sale.

depreciation The diminishing of value of a home over time. This calculation is done to make the cost approach 
to appraising more accurate by accounting for home age. When you calculate this, be sure to 
remove the value of the lot first, as it does not depreciate the way a house does!

loan origination fee A fee for processing a loan application and agreement, usually paid at signing. This is typically a 
percentage of the total loan.

loan to value ratio An amount that is charged to reduce the interest rate. Each point increases the lender's yield by 
1/8%. A 7% loan with 2 points paid would increase the yield to 7.25%.

Principal The money initially borrowed for a loan that must be paid back.

subject property The property to be sold by the seller.

Concept

Calculation and Paying back a loan costs more than the amount of principal borrowed because interest is added. 
Paying Back of Loans The first payments made on a loan are mostly applied to interest rather than the principal.  Most 

people use financial calculators to calculate loan payments.

Comparable Sales The process of helping sellers figure out a reasonable price at which to sell their homes. To do this, 
Approach the agent needs to find other properties in the neighborhood similar to the property for sale and 

make adjustments for differences. If the subject is better, we add; in other words, if the home to 
be sold has a fireplace and the comparable home does not, add the value of the fireplace to the 
value of the comparable home. This is the more common approach for estimating the cost of 
property.

Cost Approach to An appraisal estimate based on the cost of rebuilding the home, such as the cost per square foot of 
Appraising livable area and garage area. This is a high-end estimate (since a used home will cost less than 

building it brand new), so that is why this is less common to use.

I/YR Stands for Interest per Year on a loan calculator app.

Income Approach to Determining the value of a property based on how much money it could make, i.e. if it is used as a 
Appraising rental property or business. Start with the amount of money it could produce per year (PGI), then 

subtract vacancy and collection loss (VC) to get Effective Gross Income (EGI). Then subtract 
operating expenses (OE: based on taxes, insurance, variable expenses, and reserve) to get the Net 
Operating Income (NOI). Divide the NOI by the capitalization rate (R) to get the property's value 
(V). PGI - VAC - OE = NOI. NOI/R = V

Loan Calculators A loan calculator factors in the repayment of interest and principal on the loan to determine how 
long it will take to pay off

Copyright 2019 ARTI Academics and Brokers Technology Page 1 of 2



Math Story Problem Be sure to answer the question that is actually being asked. For example, if a question mentions an 
Solving agent's % split but asks for the broker's share of the commission, be sure to calculate the broker's 

share rather than the agent's.

N Stands for the Number of payment periods on a loan calculator app.

P&I payment Principal and Interest payment.

PITI payment Principal, Interest, Taxes, and Insurance payment. This occurs when taxes and insurance are 
included in the loan payment.

PMT Stands for Payment on a loan calculator app.

Property Requirements set by the lender stating what the maximum allowable housing expense to income 
Measurement ratio, and housing expense plus other debt to income ratio can be in order to qualify for a loan. 

PITI payments divided by gross monthly income gives the Housing Expense Ratio. PITI added to all 
monthly debts, divided by gross monthly income, gives the Total Obligations Ratio.

PV Stands for Present Value on a loan calculator app.

Seller Minimum Sellers usually have a target for how much money they want to make off of their property, after 
Listing taking commissions and taxes into account. Calculate this by adding the minimum value the sellers 

want for the property to the closing costs. Then, divide that by the percentage NOT included in 
commission (i.e. divide by 94% if there is a 6% commission). $280,000 (the minimum the seller 
wants to make) + $4000 (closing costs) / 94% (100% - 6% commission) = a minimum listing price of 
$302,127.66

Straight Line The amount of depreciation is calculated by dividing the cost to build the home by the total years 
Depreciation of useful life and then multiplying by the number of years that the home has existed.

Copyright 2019 ARTI Academics and Brokers Technology Page 2 of 2