UT PL 43 Math 2 Study Guide

Term

acre foot A unit of volume equal to the volume of a sheet of water one acre in area and one foot in depth.

banker's year A 360 day year, used because it divides more evenly. Each month is treated as having 30 days.

capitalization rate The ratio of net operating income to property asset value. Find by dividing the NOI by the property 
(cap rate) value.

front footage In real estate, frontage is the width of a lot, measured at the front part of the lot

insurance proration Although this is not typically done, the calculation is the same as prorating taxes or rent. Multiply 
the fraction of the year by the total insurance cost.

mill An abbreviation for millions. To express a tax rate as a decimal instead, move the decimal point 
back three places. If a property tax rate is 35 mills, it is .035 in decimal form.

mill rate The mill rate is the amount of tax payable per dollar of the assessed value of a property

operating expense The measure is very common in real estate analysis, whereby analysts are measuring the costs to 
ratio operate a piece of property versus the income it generates.

rent proration prorated rent amount you must take the total rent due, divide it by the number of days in the 
month to determine a daily rent amount

risk of loss The party bearing the burden of risk of damage occurring. Once the buyer has closed on the home, 
this becomes his or her responsibility.

tax proration The method of determining how much property tax for a year a party owes. Add the number of 
days in which the property was owned by the party in question, then multiply it by the total 
property tax, then divide it by 365 days. In other words, multiply the fraction of the year in which 
the party owned the property by the total year's tax. The seller is responsible for property tax up 
through the day of closing.

Volume To measure cubic feet, multiply length times width times depth. In other words, multiply the area 
Measurement by the depth. Acre footage

Concept

Area (square Multiply the number of acres by 43,560 to find the square footage. Square footage can be 
footage) calculated by multiplying length times width.

Calculating When calculating commissions from a transaction, be sure to calculate using the sales price rather 
Commissions than the listing price.

Calculating Special Improvement assessments by the city may be payable by owners based upon the property 
Assessments measurements. For example, an assessment for a sidewalk may be based upon the front footage 

of the property.

Depreciation Start by finding the building value: the sales price plus closing costs, multiplied by 70%. Next, take 
this value and divide it by the life of the property in years (27.5 in our example). According to the 
IRS, different types of buildings have different values.

Paying Off a Lien To remove a mechanic's lien from a home: pay the subcontractor in full, have the subcontractor 
remove the lien by signing a reconveyance of his interest to the title of the  property, and record 
the conveyance. Sellers must convey a clear title to the buyer on closing day, so all such liens must 
be removed first.

Copyright 2019 ARTI Academics and Brokers Technology Page 1 of 1