UT PL 32 The Basics of Finance 2 Study Guide

Term

collateralized A secondary market product that is a fixed income security that uses mortgage-backed securities 
mortgage obligation as collateral. It is subdivided into graduated risk classes so that investors can more easily 

determine how much risk they want to take on.

conforming loan A mortgage loan that conforms to GSE (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) guidelines, such that it can 
be purchased on the secondary debt market.

default risk The risk of not being paid. A rising market covers default risk, because a homeowner can sell the 
property in that market and make the lender whole.

delayed payment The risk of payment being deferred, which is a risk because the delay of receiving money lowers 
risk the overall value of the investment.

Desktop Underwriter Fannie Mae's automatic underwriting technology. It provides lenders a comprehensive credit risk 
assessment that determines whether a loan meets Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements.

direct lender Someone who is making a loan directly to the consumer, with the intent to hold at least a portion 
of that loan in their investment.

discount rate The interest rate charged to commercial banks and other depository institutions for loans received 
from the Federal Reserve's discount window.

discount window An instrument of monetary policy that allows eligible institutions to borrow money from the 
central bank, usually on a short-term basis, to offset temporary shortages of liquidity.

federal funds rate The federal funds target rate is set by the governors of the Federal Reserve, which they enforce by 
open market operations and adjustments in the interest rate on reserves. They intervene by 
influencing the rate at which banks are lending to one another. This impacts short-term interest 
rates, not long-term rates.

Federal Home Loan Known as FHMLC or Freddie Mac, an entity that buys mortgages on the secondary market, pools 
Mortgage them, and sells them as a mortgage-backed security to investors. A government-sponsored 
Corporation enterprise (GSE).

Federal National Known as FNMA or Fannie Mae, an organization started to create a market to help loans move 
Mortgage more smoothly. Its primary purpose is to provide liquidity for first government-backed loans (such 
Corporation as FHA and VA loans), and because of it, loans are more affordable. A government-sponsored 

enterprise (GSE).

Federal Reserve The central bank of the United States (not government-owned). It conducts monetary policy by 
System influencing money and credit conditions. It also maintains the stability of the financial system.

Government Known as GNMA or Ginnie Mae, established to ensure timely payments for FHA and VA loans so 
National Mortgage that they would be more attractive investments.
Corporation

institutional lender Buyers of loans on the secondary market. Lenders looking to provide capital to others who are 
working through the origination/underwriting process.

interest risk The risk that interest rates will go up and devalue the current, lower-interest loan.

Loan Prospector Freddie Mac's automatic underwriting technology.

mortgage backed A secondary market product that uses mortgage loans to issue a bond. Used to raise capital to 
bond issue more loans.

Copyright 2019 ARTI Academics and Brokers Technology Page 1 of 3



mortgage pay A secondary market product issued like a mortgage backed bond but pays like a pass through 
through bond security.

Nationwide The system of record for non-depository financial services licensing or registration in participating 
Mortgage state agencies.
Licensing System 
and Registry

pass through A secondary market product that passes principal and interest payments to the holder. An equity 
security interest in the loan.

prepayment risk The risk that a loan will be paid off early or otherwise refinanced at a lower interest rate, reducing 
the value that the investor would receive from interest.

prime loan Loans to borrowers who meet specific lending criteria that qualify them as a higher credit quality 
for a lender. Typically associated with conventional or conforming loans.

reserve requirement A central bank regulation that sets the minimum amount of reserves that must be held by a 
commercial bank.

subprime loan Loans to borrowers who do not have a strong credit history and are not considered as low of a 
credit risk. This refers to the credit quality of the borrower, rather than being a specific, separate 
product.

The SAFE Act Known as the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act, this legislature mandates a 
nationwide licensing and registration system for residential mortgage loan originators. The SAFE 
Act requires that federal registration and state licensing and registration be accomplished through 
the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry.

underwriter The role of the underwriter is to make sure that the loan is assembled in such a way and that the 
documentation and appropriate information is there so that when they put that loan into a pool of 
other mortgages it meets basic criteria. Underwriters must be sure that there is a complete file and 
that that file meets the criteria for investors in the secondary market who are purchasing those 
loans. They determine if the buyer has the capacity to repay the loan, that it is more than likely 
that they will be able to continue their payments in a timely manner. They are also examining the 
collateral to make sure that the property actually exists.

Concept

Discounting a Loan Lenders sometimes sell a loan at a discount if circumstances have changed. For example, if the 
credit rating has decreased, it is no longer worth as much as it was. This applies to the secondary 
market, not to the original loan agreement.

Interest Rates and When interest rates rise, the number of people purchasing homes (or the size of the homes they 
Real Estate buy) goes down. 

Loan Risk Loan owners must take into account specific types of risks, even though mortgages have collateral.

The Market for Debt Demand is lenders who want to lend (who want to buy debt). Supply is borrowers who want to 
borrow (who want to sell debt). As price moves up, interest rates fall. However, if lots of people 
want to borrow money, supply goes up, price goes down, and interest rates go up.

The Secondary The secondary loans market, in which existing loans are bought and sold. Many people buy and sell 
Market loans, typically in large packages. The goal is to ensure that lenders have enough capital to be able 

to continue providing loans.

Who Buys Debt? There are large sources of capital looking for a wide variety of assets, such as pensions, other large 
institutional resources (university endowments), and private money. One of the easiest ways for 
them to get exposure to real estate as an asset class is to buy mortgages.

Copyright 2019 ARTI Academics and Brokers Technology Page 2 of 3



Why Does Your Most lenders either specialize in originating loans or holding loans long-term. It takes a 
Lender Want to Sell tremendous amount of capital to hold loans.
Your Loan?

Copyright 2019 ARTI Academics and Brokers Technology Page 3 of 3